Move Azure Eventing post to blog repo (#53)
vendia/blog: posts/2022-01-04-azure-eventing.md

---
title: "Real-Time Cross-Cloud Data Sharing"
description: "Event-driven processing using Vendia Share's new Azure capabilities"
date: '2022-01-04'
categories:
- architecture
authors:
- James Gimourginas
---

## Overview

Vendia Share is the real-time data cloud for rapidly building applications that securely share data across departments, companies, and clouds.  As we recently [announced](https://www.vendia.net/blog/announcing-new-features), Vendia Share now includes functionality that makes integrating real-time data with Microsoft Azure services easier than ever before.

The [maturity of real-time data sharing](https://www.vendia.net/blog/distributed-application-maturity-model) capabilities varies widely among organizations.  Less mature organizations still depend heavily on manual or batch processing for internal operations.  More mature organizations have created real-time, event-driven solutions for internal operations.  To date, the maturity of an organization's real-time data sharing capabilities for internal operations had little bearing on its real-time data sharing capabilities for _external operations with partners_.

> For example, consider Organization A that adopts an event-driven microservices architecture for core systems and Organization B that still relies on error-prone batch processes.  The value of Organization A's investment is limited as soon as it attempts to collaborate with Organization B.  Whether the interaction among those organizations takes the form of periodic SFTP transfers (Organization B's preference) or point-to-point API interactions (Organization A's preference), neither duplicates the real-time, event-driven interactions from a shared source of truth that Organization A aspired to create in-house.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, consider Organization A that adopts an event-driven microservices architecture for core systems and Organization B that still relies on error-prone batch processes.  Both organizations strive to share data in real time, but Organization B lacks the in-house experience to build such a system. The value of Organization A's investment is limited as soon as it attempts to collaborate with Organization B.  Whether the interaction among those organizations takes the form of periodic SFTP transfers (Organization B's only option) or point-to-point API interactions (Organization A's preference), neither duplicates the real-time, event-driven interactions from a shared source of truth which both organizations want to achieve.
```

> As [partner ecosystems become central](https://www.bearingpointbeyond.com/en/insights/market-insights/partner-ecosystem/) to unlocking new business opportunities, it's imperative that Organizations, no matter their real-time data sharing maturity, have an easy path toward joint real-time, event-driven solutions.  Further, it's equally important to allow each Organization to make the most of its substantial investment in its in-house real-time data sharing capabilities.  For example, collaboration between Organization A and Organization B should be able to leverage the substantial investment Organization A made to modernize its in-house systems.  More often than not, this means not only working seamlessly across organizational boundaries but also seamlessly across Cloud Service Providers (CSPs), as it's common for partners to adopt different CSPs while still wanting to work effectively together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As [partner ecosystems become central](https://www.bearingpointbeyond.com/en/insights/market-insights/partner-ecosystem/) to unlocking new business opportunities, it's imperative that organizations have an easy path toward joint real-time, event-driven solutions, regardless of their real-time data sharing maturity.  Further, it's equally important to allow organizations to make the most of its existing in-house real-time data sharing capabilities.  For example, collaboration between Organization A and Organization B should be able to leverage the substantial investment Organization A made to modernize its in-house systems.  More often than not, this means working seamlessly across organizational boundaries and across cloud service providers (CSPs), as it's common for organizations to adopt different CSPs while still wanting to work effectively together.
```

Vendia Share addresses those imperatives through the concept of a Universal Application (or Uni for short).  A Uni allows each party (what we call a Uni participant) to work from a single source of truth, removing the complexity of sharing data among parties while also streamlining the use of the data as it's shared.  "As it's shared" means applying real-time actions to real-time data, using an event-driven programming model.  It also means working across organizations no matter their choice and investment in differing CSPs.

> In this blog post we'll highlight the value of Vendia Share's new Azure capabilities from both a cross-cloud data sharing and event-driven programming perspective.  Consider the case of a Supplier (on AWS), working through a Distributor (on AWS), who delivers goods to a Retailer (on Azure).  When the Supplier makes an adjustment (say by changing the anticipated fulfilment date of an existing purchase order), both the Distributor and the Retailer would like to be made aware (and take action) immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we'll highlight the value of Vendia Share's new Azure capabilities from both a cross-cloud data sharing and event-driven programming perspective.  Consider the case of a Supplier (on AWS), working through a Distributor (on AWS), who delivers goods to a Retailer (on Azure).  When the Supplier makes an adjustment (say by changing the anticipated fulfilment date of an existing purchase order), both the Distributor and the Retailer would like to be made aware (and take action) immediately.
```

<figure>
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/85032783/147981825-f0e94c34-6488-4fd3-82f4-7ef8e00224a2.png" width="100%"/>

>   <figcaption align="center"><b>Figure 1</b><br/><i>A Supplier, Distributor, and Retailer reacting in real-time across clouds as changes to purchase orders occur</i></figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption align="center"><b>Figure 1</b> - <i>A Supplier, Distributor, and Retailer reacting in real-time across clouds as changes to purchase orders occur</i></figcaption>
```

Reviewer: Just saves a little real estate on the page. Not sure how it will look. Feel free to keep what you have.

Author: Let's find out :).

</figure>

> We'll do exactly that after setting up the proper Vendia Share and Azure configuration.  The process will start by modifying the fulfillment date of a purchase order by executing a [GraphQL mutation](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#mutations) against the Supplier's node in the Uni.  That, in turn, will cause an event to flow to Retailer's node in the Uni and then to the Retailer's Azure environment, delivered to [Azure Event Grid](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/event-grid/).  From there, an event-driven [Azure Function](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/functions/) within the Retailer's Azure environment will process the delivered event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Now let's get started!

## Step 0 - Prerequisites

To replicate the Retailer's environment on Azure, we'll first need to:

* [Create a Vendia Share account](https://share.vendia.net/)
* [Create an Azure account](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/)
* Install the [Azure Command Line Interface](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) (CLI)
* Install the [Vendia Command Line Interface](https://www.vendia.net/docs/share/cli) (CLI)

## Step 1 - Create a Cross-Cloud Vendia Uni

The first step is to create a cross-cloud Uni for this example, with the following participants:

* A `Supplier` AWS Node (`us-east-2`)
* A `Distributor` AWS Node (`us-west-2`)
* A `Retailer` Azure Node (`eastus`)

> This is accomplished using a `registration.json` file that defines one Node per Uni participant.  Each Node definition includes a `csp` (short for Cloud Service Provider) and a `region`, which is [unique to each CSP](https://www.vendia.net/docs/share/cli/guide#supported-cloud-platforms-and-regions).  Using the example below, we're able to provision a multi-cloud, multi-region Uni that connects all three participants in just about 5 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is accomplished using a `registration.json` file that defines one Node per Uni participant.  Each Node definition includes a `csp` (short for cloud service provider) and a `region`, which is [unique to each CSP](https://www.vendia.net/docs/share/cli/guide#supported-cloud-platforms-and-regions).  Using the example below, we're able to provision a multi-cloud, multi-region Uni that connects all three participants in just about 5 minutes.
```

> Note: Please refer to our docs for more information about the modeling Uni participants using [a registration file](https://www.vendia.net/docs/share/uni-creation#registration-file) or modeling data using [a schema file](https://www.vendia.net/docs/share/data-modeling#sample-registration-files).

> 

Reviewer: Do we want to have the user create a directory for this example since there will several files created and we are asking that they put them all in the same directory?

Author: Omitted for brevity.

> * Save the following as `registration.json`

Reviewer: Do we want these to be numbered (vs *) since this is an ordered list of steps?

Author: Updated.

> * Save the following as `registration.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Save the following as `registration.json`. Populate `<UNI_NAME>` with a name for your Uni and each `<USER_ID>` with an email address for each Uni Node owner.
```

          "items": [
            {
              "sku": "WDGT123",
              "quantity": 10
            }
          ],
          "created": "2021-11-20T09:15:44Z",
          "expected": "2021-12-03T00:00:00Z",
          "fulfilled": "2021-12-02T15:15:15Z"
        },
        {
          "orderId": "Supplier123-Distributor123-BCDEFGH",
          "items": [
            {
              "sku": "WDGT456",
              "quantity": 10
            },
            {
              "sku": "WDGT789",
              "quantity": 5
            }
          ],
          "created": "2021-12-02T14:10:02Z",
          "expected": "2021-12-12T00:00:00Z"
        },
        {
          "orderId": "Distributor123-Retailer123-ABCDEFG",
          "items": [
            {
              "sku": "WDGT123",
              "quantity": 1
            },
            {
              "sku": "WDGT456",
              "quantity": 5
            },
            {
              "sku": "WDGT789",
              "quantity": 2
            }
          ],
          "created": "2021-12-05T12:12:03Z",
          "expected": "2021-12-15T12:00:00Z"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```
  </details>

> * After moving back to your terminal, change directory into the directory containing those files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After moving back to your terminal, change directory into the directory containing the files created above.
```

A multi-cloud, multi-region Uni allows its participants - the Supplier, the Distributor, and the Retailer - to create and modify Products and Purchase Orders.  A participant can then integrate its Vendia Share Node with services in their Cloud Service Provider (CSP) of choice in order to immediately detect and act upon Uni events.

Our next step is to connect the Vendia Retailer Node with an Azure CSP environment.  This mimics a common integration approach, where a Retailer has an existing Azure CSP environment and wants to use CSP services to produce or consume data from its Vendia Share Node.

When your Uni reaches a `RUNNING` state, you'll have a multi-cloud, multi-region Uni, including a Retailer Node.  To permit the Retailer Node to send events to an Azure CSP environment secured by an [Azure Active Directory](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/active-directory/) (Azure AD) tenant, we need to create a [Service Principal](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/app-objects-and-service-principals#service-principal-object) within Azure AD.

* Login to your Azure environment using the Azure CLI
    * `az login`

> * Identify the Subscription ID of your [Azure Subscription](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-how-subscriptions-associated-directory) in which your Azure environment resides and set the Azure Subscription against which future Azure CLI commands will execute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Identify the Subscription ID of your [Azure Subscription](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-how-subscriptions-associated-directory) in which your Azure environment resides. Set the Azure Subscription ID against which future Azure CLI commands will execute.
```

    * `az account set --subscription "<AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID>"`

> * To confirm Azure Event Grid, used to relay events from Share to your Azure environment, is ready for use we must first [register Event Grid](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-grid/custom-event-quickstart#enable-the-event-grid-resource-provider) as a provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To confirm the Azure Event Grid used to relay events from Share to your Azure environment is ready for use, we must first [register Event Grid](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-grid/custom-event-quickstart#enable-the-event-grid-resource-provider) as a provider
```

          blockReportFunctions {
            functionName
            functionAppName
            resourceGroupName
          }
          defaultSubscriptionId
          defaultTenantId
        }
      }
    }
    ```
  </details>

## Step 4 - React in Real-Time Events on Azure

Now it's time for the Supplier (from its Vendia Share AWS Node) to make a Purchase Order adjustment.  When that happens, the Retailer (from its Vendia Share Azure Node) will be notified immediately and will be able to take action (through its configured Azure Function).

* Using the Vendia Share Web Application's GraphQL Explorer of the Supplier's AWS Node, identify a Purchase Order to modify, noting the `_id` for one of the Purchase Orders listed for the subsequent step, referred to hereafter as `<PO_ID>`

  <details>
    <summary>List Purchase Orders Query</summary>
  
    ```
    query listPurchaseOrders {
      list_PurchaseOrderItems {
        _PurchaseOrderItems {
          _id
          _owner
          created
          expected
          fulfilled
          orderId
          updated
          items {
            quantity
            sku
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```
  </details>

> * Execute a GraphQL (or use Vendia Share's Entity Explorer to make an equivalent update without any GraphQL) update to modify the PO identified in the previous step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Execute a GraphQL mutation (or use Vendia Share's Entity Explorer to make an equivalent update without any GraphQL) to modify the PO identified in the previous step
```

  
    ```
    mutation updatePurchaseOrder {
      update_PurchaseOrder_async(
        id: "<PO_ID>",
        input: {
          expected: "2022-01-03T00:00:00Z"
        }) {
        result {
          _id
          _owner
          submissionTime
          transactionId
          version
        }
      }
    }
    ```
  </details>

The update to the Supplier Node will cause an event, a block notification, to be emitted from the Retailer Node.  The Retailer Node, thanks to the configuration in previous steps, will act on that event through the configured Azure Function.  We can now view the output of the Azure Function, which was triggered through the Retailer's Azure Node, using the Azure-provided [Application Insights](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/analyze-telemetry-data) view.

<figure>
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/85032783/147982095-1d1602ee-616f-4b81-b455-463fe7857429.png" width="100%"/>
  <figcaption align="center"><b>Figure 2</b><br/><i>The Azure Function output after successfully processing an event delivered from the Retailer's Node</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Key Takeaways

> Vendia Share's new Azure eventing mechanism allows partners - in this case a Supplier, a Distributor, and a Retailer - to keep each other informed, in real-time, and act on updates as they happen.  While this capability is still a Beta feature, we'd love to [get your feedback](https://www.vendia.net/contact-us).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vendia Share's new Azure eventing mechanism allows partners - in this case a Supplier, a Distributor, and a Retailer - to keep each other informed, in real-time, and act on updates as they happen.  While this capability is still a beta feature, we'd love to [get your feedback](https://www.vendia.net/contact-us).
```
